# Meta plugin for getkirby.com

This plugins handles the generation of meta tags for search engines, social networks, browsers and beyond.

## How it works

The plugin looks for metadata in a page's content file (e.g. article.txt). If the page does not contain the specific field, it checks if the page model provides a `metadata()` method returning an arraywith corresponding data. If that also fails, it falls back to default metadata stored in the `site.txt`.

## Available keys

**Description:** The description field is used for search engines as a plain meta tag and additionally added as an OpenGraph meta tag, which is used by social media networks like e.g. Facebook or Twitter.

**Thumbnail:** The thumbnail for sharing the page in a social network. See below for all options.

**Twittercard:** Is "summary_large_image" by default. Set this to "summary", if you don’t want to display a large preview image.

**Robots:** Generates the "robots" meta tag, that gives specifix instructions to crawlers. By default, this tag is not preset, unless a default value is defined in `site.txt`. Use a value, that you would also use if you wrote the markup directly (e.g. `noindex, nofollow`)

**Title and Ogtitle:** By default, the metadata plugin will use the page’s `title` field. You can override this by defining an `ogtitle` field for a specific page. The `ogtitle` will then be used for OpenGraph metadata instead of the page title.

**Twittersite:** The twitter account, which the site belongs to.

**Twittercreator:** The twitter account, who created the current page.

**Priority:** The priority for telling search engines about the importance of pages of your site. Must be a float value between 0.0 and 1.0. This value will not fall back to `site.txt`, but rather use 0.5 as default.

**Changefreq:** Tells search engines how often a page changes. Possible values can be found in the (sitemaps protocol specification)[https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html].

## Using page models to automatically generate meta data

Page models can be useful, if you do not want to enter all meta data manually.

The following example adds a `metadata()` method to all Kosmos episodes, that takes care of generating useful metadata. All keys returned by the `metadata()` method must be lowercase.

You can still override values (e.g. `description`) by adding a description field to an episode’s `issue.txt` file if you want to customize any of these values.

```php
class KosmosIssuePage extends Page
{

    public function metadata(): array
    {
        return [
            'description' => 'Read issue no. ' . $this->uid() . ' of our montly newsletter online.',
            'ogtitle' => 'Kirby Kosmos Episode ' . $this->uid(),
        ];
    }
}
```

## Thumbnail

This plugin also provides automatic generated thumbnails for e.g. social networks. By default every page gets an automatic thumbnail. You can switch this off:

```
Thumbnail: false
```

```php
public function metadata(): array
{
    return [
        'thumbnail' => false
    ];
}
```

Another option is to define a custom thumbnail for the page/page model:

```
OgImage: assets.png
```

```php
public function metadata(): array
{
    return [
        'ogimage' => $this->image()
    ];
}
```

The autogenerated thumbnails have some defaults for the `lead` and `title` text string:

- `lead`: bradcrumb of parents' page titles. If none, `The CMS`
- `title`: the page's title

You can also modiy these per page or page model:

```
Thumbnail: 
  -
  lead: Check out our
  title: Amazing sale
```

```php
public function metadata(): array
{
    return [
        'thumbnail' => [
            'lead' => 'Reference / Class',
            'title' => $this->name()
        ]
    ];
}
```

The autogenerated thumbnail can also optionally include an image:

```
Thumbnail: assets.png
```

```
Thumbnail: 
  -
  lead: The CMS
  image: assets.png
```

```php
public function metadata(): array
{
    return [
        'thumbnail' => [
            'image' => $this->image()
        ]
    ];
}
```
